docs/07-devops/README.md, before:

---
owner: Engineering
status: active
last_updated: 2026-02-26
audience: engineering, devops, pm, qa
---

# 07 DevOps

## Purpose
Document CI/CD architecture, environment management, and operational runbooks.

## Planned Documents
- `cicd-architecture.md`
- `environments-and-secrets.md`
- `deployment-runbook.md`
- `rollback-runbook.md`
- `branch-protection-and-security-gates.md`
- `github-repo-security-setup-checklist.md`
- `incident-response-runbook.md`
- `security-exception-register.md`
- `security-operations-weekly-rhythm.md`

## Key Docs
- [`cicd-architecture.md`](cicd-architecture.md)
- [`environments-and-secrets.md`](environments-and-secrets.md)
- [`deployment-runbook.md`](deployment-runbook.md)
- [`branch-protection-and-security-gates.md`](branch-protection-and-security-gates.md)
- [`github-repo-security-setup-checklist.md`](github-repo-security-setup-checklist.md)
- [`incident-response-runbook.md`](incident-response-runbook.md)
- [`security-exception-register.md`](security-exception-register.md)
- [`security-operations-weekly-rhythm.md`](security-operations-weekly-rhythm.md)

## Standard Outline For Each Document
1. Purpose and audience
2. Executive summary
3. Operational architecture
4. Step-by-step procedures
5. Failure modes and recovery
6. Ownership and SLAs

## Owner
- Engineering + DevOps

Commit message:

chore(ci): add tag-based release automation
Add a GitHub release workflow for semver tags and manual dispatch, plus release note categorization and a runbook so solo-maintainer releases are repeatable and auditable.

docs/07-devops/README.md, after:

---
owner: Engineering
status: active
last_updated: 2026-02-26
audience: engineering, devops, pm, qa
---

# 07 DevOps

## Purpose
Document CI/CD architecture, environment management, and operational runbooks.

## Planned Documents
- `cicd-architecture.md`
- `environments-and-secrets.md`
- `deployment-runbook.md`
- `rollback-runbook.md`
- `tags-and-releases.md`
- `branch-protection-and-security-gates.md`
- `github-repo-security-setup-checklist.md`
- `incident-response-runbook.md`
- `security-exception-register.md`
- `security-operations-weekly-rhythm.md`

## Key Docs
- [`cicd-architecture.md`](cicd-architecture.md)
- [`environments-and-secrets.md`](environments-and-secrets.md)
- [`deployment-runbook.md`](deployment-runbook.md)
- [`tags-and-releases.md`](tags-and-releases.md)
- [`branch-protection-and-security-gates.md`](branch-protection-and-security-gates.md)
- [`github-repo-security-setup-checklist.md`](github-repo-security-setup-checklist.md)
- [`incident-response-runbook.md`](incident-response-runbook.md)
- [`security-exception-register.md`](security-exception-register.md)
- [`security-operations-weekly-rhythm.md`](security-operations-weekly-rhythm.md)

## Standard Outline For Each Document
1. Purpose and audience
2. Executive summary
3. Operational architecture
4. Step-by-step procedures
5. Failure modes and recovery
6. Ownership and SLAs

## Owner
- Engineering + DevOps
